# Credit_Card_Fraud_Detection
## Credit card fraud detection using machine learning
The usage of credit cards for regular and online purchases is rapidly increasing and so is the fraud related with it. So, now it is important to identify the fraudulent transaction.By using data science and machine learning we can do so.There are many machine learning algorithms that can be used to detect the credit card frauds. But detecting fraud transactions is not an easy task. There are many difficulties to predict fraud transactions - several features that leads to difficulty of understanding the importance of features, credit card fraud detection is an extremely class imbalance problem, it has only 0.17% of fraud transactions which leads to a huge problem while detecting frauds ones. Class imbalance is not only the major concern, huge data and low minority class leads to overfitting problem. To tackle class imbalance problem, we have used different resampling techniques-  random under-sampling, random over-sampling and hybrid approach SMOTE on logistic regression, decision tree. We have also used random forest and bagging as ensemble learning. To reduce over fitting problem, we have applied stratified 10-fold cross validation in each model to get the best accuracy.
## Dataset:
For this detection model, we have collected the dataset from Kaggle [creditcard.csv](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/mlg-ulb/creditcardfraud)
The dataset contains transactions made by credit cards in September 2013 by European cardholders.
This dataset presents transactions that occurred in two days, where we have 492 frauds out of 284,807 transactions. The dataset is highly unbalanced, the positive class (frauds) account for 0.172% of all transactions.

It contains only numerical input variables which are the result of a PCA transformation. Unfortunately, due to confidentiality issues, we cannot provide the original features and more background information about the data. Features V1, V2, … V28 are the principal components obtained with PCA, the only features which have not been transformed with PCA are 'Time' and 'Amount'. Feature 'Time' contains the seconds elapsed between each transaction and the first transaction in the dataset. The feature 'Amount' is the transaction Amount, this feature can be used for example-dependant cost-sensitive learning. Feature 'Class' is the response variable and it takes value 1 in case of fraud and 0 otherwise.
